Navigation index modules  next  previous  Python  3.14.3 Documentation  The Python Standard Library  Builtin Functions  Theme Auto Light Dark  Builtin Functions  The Python interpreter has a number of functions and types built into it that are always available. They are listed here in alphabetical order. Builtin Functions A abs() aiter() all() anext() any() ascii() B bin() bool() breakpoint() bytearray() bytes() C callable() chr() classmethod() compile() complex() D delattr() dict() dir() divmod() E enumerate() eval() exec() F filter() float() format() frozenset() G getattr() globals() H hasattr() hash() help() hex() I id() input() int() isinstance() issubclass() iter() L len() list() locals() M map() max() memoryview() min() N next() O object() oct() open() ord() P pow() print() property() R range() repr() reversed() round() S set() setattr() slice() sorted() staticmethod() str() sum() super() T tuple() type() V vars() Z zip()  import() abs ( number ,  )  Return the absolute value of a number. The argument may be an integer, a floatingpoint number, or an object implementing abs() . If the argument is a complex number, its magnitude is returned. aiter ( asynciterable ,  )  Return an asynchronous iterator for an asynchronous iterable . Equivalent to calling x.aiter() . Note: Unlike iter() , aiter() has no 2argument variant. Added in version 3.10. all ( iterable ,  )  Return True if all elements of the iterable are true (or if the iterable is empty). Equivalent to: def all ( iterable ): for element in iterable : if not element : return False return True awaitable anext ( asynciterator ,  )  awaitable anext ( asynciterator , default ,  ) When awaited, return the next item from the given asynchronous iterator , or default if given and the iterator is exhausted. This is the async variant of the next() builtin, and behaves similarly. This calls the anext() method of asynciterator , returning an awaitable . Awaiting this returns the next value of the iterator. If default is given, it is returned if the iterator is exhausted, otherwise StopAsyncIteration is raised. Added in version 3.10. any ( iterable ,  )  Return True if any element of the iterable is true. If the iterable is empty, return False . Equivalent to: def any ( iterable ): for element in iterable : if element : return True return False ascii ( object ,  )  As repr() , return a string containing a printable representation of an object, but escape the nonASCII characters in the string returned by repr() using x , u , or U escapes. This generates a string similar to that returned by repr() in Python 2. bin ( integer ,  )  Convert an integer number to a binary string prefixed with 0b. The result is a valid Python expression. If integer is not a Python int object, it has to define an index() method that returns an integer. Some examples:  bin ( 3 ) 0b11  bin (  10 ) 0b1010 If the prefix 0b is desired or not, you can use either of the following ways.  format ( 14 , b ), format ( 14 , b ) (0b1110, 1110)  f  { 14 : b }  , f  { 14 : b }  (0b1110, 1110) See also enum.bin() to represent negative values as twoscomplement. See also format() for more information. class bool ( object  False ,  )  Return a Boolean value, i.e. one of True or False . The argument is converted using the standard truth testing procedure . If the argument is false or omitted, this returns False ; otherwise, it returns True . The bool class is a subclass of int (see Numeric Types  int, float, complex ). It cannot be subclassed further. Its only instances are False and True (see Boolean Type  bool ). Changed in version 3.7: The parameter is now positionalonly. breakpoint (  args ,  kws )  This function drops you into the debugger at the call site. Specifically, it calls sys.breakpointhook() , passing args and kws straight through. By default, sys.breakpointhook() calls pdb.settrace() expecting no arguments. In this case, it is purely a convenience function so you dont have to explicitly import pdb or type as much code to enter the debugger. However, sys.breakpointhook() can be set to some other function and breakpoint() will automatically call that, allowing you to drop into the debugger of choice. If sys.breakpointhook() is not accessible, this function will raise RuntimeError . By default, the behavior of breakpoint() can be changed with the PYTHONBREAKPOINT environment variable. See sys.breakpointhook() for usage details. Note that this is not guaranteed if sys.breakpointhook() has been replaced. Raises an auditing event builtins.breakpoint with argument breakpointhook . Added in version 3.7. class bytearray ( source  b ) class bytearray ( source , encoding , errors  strict ) Return a new array of bytes. The bytearray class is a mutable sequence of integers in the range 0  is commonly used). The mode argument specifies what kind of code must be compiled; it can be exec if source consists of a sequence of statements, eval if it consists of a single expression, or single if it consists of a single interactive statement (in the latter case, expression statements that evaluate to something other than None will be printed). The optional arguments flags and dontinherit control which compiler options should be activated and which future features should be allowed. If neither is present (or both are zero) the code is compiled with the same flags that affect the code that is calling compile() . If the flags argument is given and dontinherit is not (or is zero) then the compiler options and the future statements specified by the flags argument are used in addition to those that would be used anyway. If dontinherit is a nonzero integer then the flags argument is it  the flags (future features and compiler options) in the surrounding code are ignored. Compiler options and future statements are specified by bits which can be bitwise ORed together to specify multiple options. The bitfield required to specify a given future feature can be found as the compilerflag attribute on the Feature instance in the future module. Compiler flags can be found in ast module, with PyCF prefix. The argument optimize specifies the optimization level of the compiler; the default value of 1 selects the optimization level of the interpreter as given by O options. Explicit levels are 0 (no optimization; debug is true), 1 (asserts are removed, debug is false) or 2 (docstrings are removed too). This function raises SyntaxError or ValueError if the compiled source is invalid. If you want to parse Python code into its AST representation, see ast.parse() . Raises an auditing event compile with arguments source and filename . This event may also be raised by implicit compilation. Note When compiling a string with multiline code in single or eval mode, input must be terminated by at least one newline character. This is to facilitate detection of incomplete and complete statements in the code module. Warning It is possible to crash the Python interpreter with a sufficiently largecomplex string when compiling to an AST object due to stack depth limitations in Pythons AST compiler. Changed in version 3.2: Allowed use of Windows and Mac newlines. Also, input in exec mode does not have to end in a newline anymore. Added the optimize parameter. Changed in version 3.5: Previously, TypeError was raised when null bytes were encountered in source . Added in version 3.8: ast.PyCFALLOWTOPLEVELAWAIT can now be passed in flags to enable support for toplevel await , async for , and async with . class complex ( number  0 ,  )  class complex ( string ,  ) class complex ( real  0 , imag  0 ) Convert a single string or number to a complex number, or create a complex number from real and imaginary parts. Examples:  complex ( 1.23 ) (1.230j)  complex ( 4.5j ) 4.5j  complex ( 1.234.5j ) (1.234.5j)  complex (  t ( 1.234.5J ) n  ) (1.234.5j)  complex ( InfinityNaNj ) (infnanj)  complex ( 1.23 ) (1.230j)  complex ( imag  4.5 ) 4.5j  complex (  1.23 , 4.5 ) (1.234.5j) If the argument is a string, it must contain either a real part (in the same format as for float() ) or an imaginary part (in the same format but with a j or J suffix), or both real and imaginary parts (the sign of the imaginary part is mandatory in this case). The string can optionally be surrounded by whitespaces and the round parentheses ( and ) , which are ignored. The string must not contain whitespace between  ,  , the j or J suffix, and the decimal number. For example, complex(12j) is fine, but complex(1  2j) raises ValueError . More precisely, the input must conform to the complexvalue production rule in the following grammar, after parentheses and leading and trailing whitespace characters are removed: complexvalue : floatvalue  floatvalue ( j  J )  floatvalue sign absfloatvalue ( j  J ) If the argument is a number, the constructor serves as a numeric conversion like int and float . For a general Python object x , complex(x) delegates to x.complex() . If complex() is not defined then it falls back to float() . If float() is not defined then it falls back to index() . If two arguments are provided or keyword arguments are used, each argument may be any numeric type (including complex). If both arguments are real numbers, return a complex number with the real component real and the imaginary component imag . If both arguments are complex numbers, return a complex number with the real component real.realimag.imag and the imaginary component real.imagimag.real . If one of arguments is a real number, only its real component is used in the above expressions. See also complex.fromnumber() which only accepts a single numeric argument. If all arguments are omitted, returns 0j . The complex type is described in Numeric Types  int, float, complex . Changed in version 3.6: Grouping digits with underscores as in code literals is allowed. Changed in version 3.8: Falls back to index() if complex() and float() are not defined. Deprecated since version 3.14: Passing a complex number as the real or imag argument is now deprecated; it should only be passed as a single positional argument. delattr ( object , name ,  )  This is a relative of setattr() . The arguments are an object and a string. The string must be the name of one of the objects attributes. The function deletes the named attribute, provided the object allows it. For example, delattr(x, foobar) is equivalent to del x.foobar . name need not be a Python identifier (see setattr() ). class dict (  kwargs ) class dict ( mapping ,  ,  kwargs ) class dict ( iterable ,  ,  kwargs ) Create a new dictionary. The dict object is the dictionary class. See dict and Mapping Types  dict for documentation about this class. For other containers see the builtin list , set , and tuple classes, as well as the collections module. dir ( )  dir ( object ,  ) Without arguments, return the list of names in the current local scope. With an argument, attempt to return a list of valid attributes for that object. If the object has a method named dir() , this method will be called and must return the list of attributes. This allows objects that implement a custom getattr() or getattribute() function to customize the way dir() reports their attributes. If the object does not provide dir() , the function tries its best to gather information from the objects dict attribute, if defined, and from its type object. The resulting list is not necessarily complete and may be inaccurate when the object has a custom getattr() . The default dir() mechanism behaves differently with different types of objects, as it attempts to produce the most relevant, rather than complete, information: If the object is a module object, the list contains the names of the modules attributes. If the object is a type or class object, the list contains the names of its attributes, and recursively of the attributes of its bases. Otherwise, the list contains the objects attributes names, the names of its classs attributes, and recursively of the attributes of its classs base classes. The resulting list is sorted alphabetically. For example:  import struct  dir ()  show the names in the module namespace [builtins, name, struct]  dir ( struct )  show the names in the struct module [Struct, all, builtins, cached, doc, file, initializing, loader, name, package, clearcache, calcsize, error, pack, packinto, unpack, unpackfrom]  class Shape : ... def dir ( self ): ... return [ area , perimeter , location ] ...  s  Shape ()  dir ( s ) [area, location, perimeter] Note Because dir() is supplied primarily as a convenience for use at an interactive prompt, it tries to supply an interesting set of names more than it tries to supply a rigorously or consistently defined set of names, and its detailed behavior may change across releases. For example, metaclass attributes are not in the result list when the argument is a class. divmod ( a , b ,  )  Take two (noncomplex) numbers as arguments and return a pair of numbers consisting of their quotient and remainder when using integer division. With mixed operand types, the rules for binary arithmetic operators apply. For integers, the result is the same as (a  b, a  b) . For floatingpoint numbers the result is (q, a  b) , where q is usually math.floor(a  b) but may be 1 less than that. In any case q  b  a  b is very close to a , if a  b is nonzero it has the same sign as b , and 0  seasons  [ Spring , Summer , Fall , Winter ]  list ( enumerate ( seasons )) [(0, Spring), (1, Summer), (2, Fall), (3, Winter)]  list ( enumerate ( seasons , start  1 )) [(1, Spring), (2, Summer), (3, Fall), (4, Winter)] Equivalent to: def enumerate ( iterable , start  0 ): n  start for elem in iterable : yield n , elem n  1 eval ( source ,  , globals  None , locals  None )  Parameters : source ( str  code object )  A Python expression. globals ( dict  None )  The global namespace (default: None ). locals ( mapping  None )  The local namespace (default: None ). Returns : The result of the evaluated expression. Raises : Syntax errors are reported as exceptions. Warning This function executes arbitrary code. Calling it with untrusted usersupplied input will lead to security vulnerabilities. The source argument is parsed and evaluated as a Python expression (technically speaking, a condition list) using the globals and locals mappings as global and local namespace. If the globals dictionary is present and does not contain a value for the key builtins , a reference to the dictionary of the builtin module builtins is inserted under that key before source is parsed. Overriding builtins can be used to restrict or change the available names, but this is not a security mechanism: the executed code can still access all builtins. If the locals mapping is omitted it defaults to the globals dictionary. If both mappings are omitted, the source is executed with the globals and locals in the environment where eval() is called. Note, eval() will only have access to the nested scopes (nonlocals) in the enclosing environment if they are already referenced in the scope that is calling eval() (e.g. via a nonlocal statement). Example:  x  1  eval ( x1 ) 2 This function can also be used to execute arbitrary code objects (such as those created by compile() ). In this case, pass a code object instead of a string. If the code object has been compiled with exec as the mode argument, eval() s return value will be None . Hints: dynamic execution of statements is supported by the exec() function. The globals() and locals() functions return the current global and local dictionary, respectively, which may be useful to pass around for use by eval() or exec() . If the given source is a string, then leading and trailing spaces and tabs are stripped. See ast.literaleval() for a function that can safely evaluate strings with expressions containing only literals. Raises an auditing event exec with the code object as the argument. Code compilation events may also be raised. Changed in version 3.13: The globals and locals arguments can now be passed as keywords. Changed in version 3.13: The semantics of the default locals namespace have been adjusted as described for the locals() builtin. exec ( source ,  , globals  None , locals  None ,  , closure  None )  Warning This function executes arbitrary code. Calling it with untrusted usersupplied input will lead to security vulnerabilities. This function supports dynamic execution of Python code. source must be either a string or a code object. If it is a string, the string is parsed as a suite of Python statements which is then executed (unless a syntax error occurs). [ 1 ] If it is a code object, it is simply executed. In all cases, the code thats executed is expected to be valid as file input (see the section File input in the Reference Manual). Be aware that the nonlocal , yield , and return statements may not be used outside of function definitions even within the context of code passed to the exec() function. The return value is None . In all cases, if the optional parts are omitted, the code is executed in the current scope. If only globals is provided, it must be a dictionary (and not a subclass of dictionary), which will be used for both the global and the local variables. If globals and locals are given, they are used for the global and local variables, respectively. If provided, locals can be any mapping object. Remember that at the module level, globals and locals are the same dictionary. Note When exec gets two separate objects as globals and locals , the code will be executed as if it were embedded in a class definition. This means functions and classes defined in the executed code will not be able to access variables assigned at the top level (as the top level variables are treated as class variables in a class definition). If the globals dictionary does not contain a value for the key builtins , a reference to the dictionary of the builtin module builtins is inserted under that key. Overriding builtins can be used to restrict or change the available names, but this is not a security mechanism: the executed code can still access all builtins. The closure argument specifies a closurea tuple of cellvars. Its only valid when the object is a code object containing free (closure) variables . The length of the tuple must exactly match the length of the code objects cofreevars attribute. Raises an auditing event exec with the code object as the argument. Code compilation events may also be raised. Note The builtin functions globals() and locals() return the current global and local namespace, respectively, which may be useful to pass around for use as the second and third argument to exec() . Note The default locals act as described for function locals() below. Pass an explicit locals dictionary if you need to see effects of the code on locals after function exec() returns. Changed in version 3.11: Added the closure parameter. Changed in version 3.13: The globals and locals arguments can now be passed as keywords. Changed in version 3.13: The semantics of the default locals namespace have been adjusted as described for the locals() builtin. filter ( function , iterable ,  )  Construct an iterator from those elements of iterable for which function is true. iterable may be either a sequence, a container which supports iteration, or an iterator. If function is None , the identity function is assumed, that is, all elements of iterable that are false are removed. Note that filter(function, iterable) is equivalent to the generator expression (item for item in iterable if function(item)) if function is not None and (item for item in iterable if item) if function is None . See itertools.filterfalse() for the complementary function that returns elements of iterable for which function is false. class float ( number  0.0 ,  )  class float ( string ,  ) Return a floatingpoint number constructed from a number or a string. Examples:  float ( 1.23 ) 1.23  float (  12345 n  ) 12345.0  float ( 1e003 ) 0.001  float ( 1E6 ) 1000000.0  float ( Infinity ) inf If the argument is a string, it should contain a decimal number, optionally preceded by a sign, and optionally embedded in whitespace. The optional sign may be  or  ; a  sign has no effect on the value produced. The argument may also be a string representing a NaN (notanumber), or positive or negative infinity. More precisely, the input must conform to the floatvalue production rule in the following grammar, after leading and trailing whitespace characters are removed: sign :    infinity : Infinity  inf nan : nan digit : digitpart : digit ([  ] digit ) number : [ digitpart ] . digitpart  digitpart [ . ] exponent : ( e  E ) [ sign ] digitpart floatnumber : number [ exponent ] absfloatvalue : floatnumber  infinity  nan floatvalue : [ sign ] absfloatvalue Case is not significant, so, for example, inf, Inf, INFINITY, and iNfINity are all acceptable spellings for positive infinity. Otherwise, if the argument is an integer or a floatingpoint number, a floatingpoint number with the same value (within Pythons floatingpoint precision) is returned. If the argument is outside the range of a Python float, an OverflowError will be raised. For a general Python object x , float(x) delegates to x.float() . If float() is not defined then it falls back to index() . See also float.fromnumber() which only accepts a numeric argument. If no argument is given, 0.0 is returned. The float type is described in Numeric Types  int, float, complex . Changed in version 3.6: Grouping digits with underscores as in code literals is allowed. Changed in version 3.7: The parameter is now positionalonly. Changed in version 3.8: Falls back to index() if float() is not defined. format ( value , formatspec   ,  )  Convert a value to a formatted representation, as controlled by formatspec . The interpretation of formatspec will depend on the type of the value argument; however, there is a standard formatting syntax that is used by most builtin types: Format Specification MiniLanguage . The default formatspec is an empty string which usually gives the same effect as calling str(value) . A call to format(value, formatspec) is translated to type(value).format(value, formatspec) which bypasses the instance dictionary when searching for the values format() method. A TypeError exception is raised if the method search reaches object and the formatspec is nonempty, or if either the formatspec or the return value are not strings. Changed in version 3.4: object().format(formatspec) raises TypeError if formatspec is not an empty string. class frozenset ( iterable  () ,  ) Return a new frozenset object, optionally with elements taken from iterable . frozenset is a builtin class. See frozenset and Set Types  set, frozenset for documentation about this class. For other containers see the builtin set , list , tuple , and dict classes, as well as the collections module. getattr ( object , name ,  )  getattr ( object , name , default ,  ) Return the value of the named attribute of object . name must be a string. If the string is the name of one of the objects attributes, the result is the value of that attribute. For example, getattr(x, foobar) is equivalent to x.foobar . If the named attribute does not exist, default is returned if provided, otherwise AttributeError is raised. name need not be a Python identifier (see setattr() ). Note Since private name mangling happens at compilation time, one must manually mangle a private attributes (attributes with two leading underscores) name in order to retrieve it with getattr() . globals ( )  Return the dictionary implementing the current module namespace. For code within functions, this is set when the function is defined and remains the same regardless of where the function is called. hasattr ( object , name ,  )  The arguments are an object and a string. The result is True if the string is the name of one of the objects attributes, False if not. (This is implemented by calling getattr(object, name) and seeing whether it raises an AttributeError or not.) hash ( object ,  )  Return the hash value of the object (if it has one). Hash values are integers. They are used to quickly compare dictionary keys during a dictionary lookup. Numeric values that compare equal have the same hash value (even if they are of different types, as is the case for 1 and 1.0). Note For objects with custom hash() methods, note that hash() truncates the return value based on the bit width of the host machine. help ( )  help ( request ) Invoke the builtin help system. (This function is intended for interactive use.) If no argument is given, the interactive help system starts on the interpreter console. If the argument is a string, then the string is looked up as the name of a module, function, class, method, keyword, or documentation topic, and a help page is printed on the console. If the argument is any other kind of object, a help page on the object is generated. Note that if a slash() appears in the parameter list of a function when invoking help() , it means that the parameters prior to the slash are positionalonly. For more info, see the FAQ entry on positionalonly parameters . This function is added to the builtin namespace by the site module. Changed in version 3.4: Changes to pydoc and inspect mean that the reported signatures for callables are now more comprehensive and consistent. hex ( integer ,  )  Convert an integer number to a lowercase hexadecimal string prefixed with 0x. If integer is not a Python int object, it has to define an index() method that returns an integer. Some examples:  hex ( 255 ) 0xff  hex (  42 ) 0x2a If you want to convert an integer number to an uppercase or lower hexadecimal string with prefix or not, you can use either of the following ways:   x   255 ,  x   255 ,  X   255 (0xff, ff, FF)  format ( 255 , x ), format ( 255 , x ), format ( 255 , X ) (0xff, ff, FF)  f  { 255 : x }  , f  { 255 : x }  , f  { 255 : X }  (0xff, ff, FF) See also format() for more information. See also int() for converting a hexadecimal string to an integer using a base of 16. Note To obtain a hexadecimal string representation for a float, use the float.hex() method. id ( object ,  )  Return the identity of an object. This is an integer which is guaranteed to be unique and constant for this object during its lifetime. Two objects with nonoverlapping lifetimes may have the same id() value. CPython implementation detail: This is the address of the object in memory. Raises an auditing event builtins.id with argument id . input ( )  input ( prompt ,  ) If the prompt argument is present, it is written to standard output without a trailing newline. The function then reads a line from input, converts it to a string (stripping a trailing newline), and returns that. When EOF is read, EOFError is raised. Example:  s  input (   )  Monty Pythons Flying Circus  s Monty Pythons Flying Circus If the readline module was loaded, then input() will use it to provide elaborate line editing and history features. Raises an auditing event builtins.input with argument prompt before reading input Raises an auditing event builtins.inputresult with the result after successfully reading input. class int ( number  0 ,  )  class int ( string ,  , base  10 ) Return an integer object constructed from a number or a string, or return 0 if no arguments are given. Examples:  int ( 123.45 ) 123  int ( 123 ) 123  int (  12345 n  ) 12345  int ( FACE , 16 ) 64206  int ( 0xface , 0 ) 64206  int ( 01110011 , base  2 ) 115 If the argument defines int() , int(x) returns x.int() . If the argument defines index() , it returns x.index() . For floatingpoint numbers, this truncates towards zero. If the argument is not a number or if base is given, then it must be a string, bytes , or bytearray instance representing an integer in radix base . Optionally, the string can be preceded by  or  (with no space in between), have leading zeros, be surrounded by whitespace, and have single underscores interspersed between digits. A basen integer string contains digits, each representing a value from 0 to n1. The values 09 can be represented by any Unicode decimal digit. The values 1035 can be represented by a to z (or A to Z ). The default base is 10. The allowed bases are 0 and 236. Base2, 8, and 16 strings can be optionally prefixed with 0b  0B , 0o  0O , or 0x  0X , as with integer literals in code. For base 0, the string is interpreted in a similar way to an integer literal in code , in that the actual base is 2, 8, 10, or 16 as determined by the prefix. Base 0 also disallows leading zeros: int(010, 0) is not legal, while int(010) and int(010, 8) are. The integer type is described in Numeric Types  int, float, complex . Changed in version 3.4: If base is not an instance of int and the base object has a base.index method, that method is called to obtain an integer for the base. Previous versions used base.int instead of base.index . Changed in version 3.6: Grouping digits with underscores as in code literals is allowed. Changed in version 3.7: The first parameter is now positionalonly. Changed in version 3.8: Falls back to index() if int() is not defined. Changed in version 3.11: int string inputs and string representations can be limited to help avoid denial of service attacks. A ValueError is raised when the limit is exceeded while converting a string to an int or when converting an int into a string would exceed the limit. See the integer string conversion length limitation documentation. Changed in version 3.14: int() no longer delegates to the trunc() method. isinstance ( object , classinfo ,  )  Return True if the object argument is an instance of the classinfo argument, or of a (direct, indirect, or virtual ) subclass thereof. If object is not an object of the given type, the function always returns False . If classinfo is a tuple of type objects (or recursively, other such tuples) or a Union Type of multiple types, return True if object is an instance of any of the types. If classinfo is not a type or tuple of types and such tuples, a TypeError exception is raised. TypeError may not be raised for an invalid type if an earlier check succeeds. Changed in version 3.10: classinfo can be a Union Type . issubclass ( class , classinfo ,  )  Return True if class is a subclass (direct, indirect, or virtual ) of classinfo . A class is considered a subclass of itself. classinfo may be a tuple of class objects (or recursively, other such tuples) or a Union Type , in which case return True if class is a subclass of any entry in classinfo . In any other case, a TypeError exception is raised. Changed in version 3.10: classinfo can be a Union Type . iter ( iterable ,  )  iter ( callable , sentinel ,  ) Return an iterator object. The first argument is interpreted very differently depending on the presence of the second argument. Without a second argument, the single argument must be a collection object which supports the iterable protocol (the iter() method), or it must support the sequence protocol (the getitem() method with integer arguments starting at 0 ). If it does not support either of those protocols, TypeError is raised. If the second argument, sentinel , is given, then the first argument must be a callable object. The iterator created in this case will call callable with no arguments for each call to its next() method; if the value returned is equal to sentinel , StopIteration will be raised, otherwise the value will be returned. See also Iterator Types . One useful application of the second form of iter() is to build a blockreader. For example, reading fixedwidth blocks from a binary database file until the end of file is reached: from functools import partial with open ( mydata.db , rb ) as f : for block in iter ( partial ( f . read , 64 ), b  ): processblock ( block ) len ( object ,  )  Return the length (the number of items) of an object. The argument may be a sequence (such as a string, bytes, tuple, list, or range) or a collection (such as a dictionary, set, or frozen set). CPython implementation detail: len raises OverflowError on lengths larger than sys.maxsize , such as range(2  100) . class list ( iterable  () ,  ) Rather than being a function, list is actually a mutable sequence type, as documented in Lists and Sequence Types  list, tuple, range . locals ( )  Return a mapping object representing the current local symbol table, with variable names as the keys, and their currently bound references as the values. At module scope, as well as when using exec() or eval() with a single namespace, this function returns the same namespace as globals() . At class scope, it returns the namespace that will be passed to the metaclass constructor. When using exec() or eval() with separate local and global arguments, it returns the local namespace passed in to the function call. In all of the above cases, each call to locals() in a given frame of execution will return the same mapping object. Changes made through the mapping object returned from locals() will be visible as assigned, reassigned, or deleted local variables, and assigning, reassigning, or deleting local variables will immediately affect the contents of the returned mapping object. In an optimized scope (including functions, generators, and coroutines), each call to locals() instead returns a fresh dictionary containing the current bindings of the functions local variables and any nonlocal cell references. In this case, name binding changes made via the returned dict are not written back to the corresponding local variables or nonlocal cell references, and assigning, reassigning, or deleting local variables and nonlocal cell references does not affect the contents of previously returned dictionaries. Calling locals() as part of a comprehension in a function, generator, or coroutine is equivalent to calling it in the containing scope, except that the comprehensions initialised iteration variables will be included. In other scopes, it behaves as if the comprehension were running as a nested function. Calling locals() as part of a generator expression is equivalent to calling it in a nested generator function. Changed in version 3.12: The behaviour of locals() in a comprehension has been updated as described in PEP 709 . Changed in version 3.13: As part of PEP 667 , the semantics of mutating the mapping objects returned from this function are now defined. The behavior in optimized scopes is now as described above. Aside from being defined, the behaviour in other scopes remains unchanged from previous versions. map ( function , iterable ,  ,  iterables , strict  False )  Return an iterator that applies function to every item of iterable , yielding the results. If additional iterables arguments are passed, function must take that many arguments and is applied to the items from all iterables in parallel. With multiple iterables, the iterator stops when the shortest iterable is exhausted. If strict is True and one of the iterables is exhausted before the others, a ValueError is raised. For cases where the function inputs are already arranged into argument tuples, see itertools.starmap() . Changed in version 3.14: Added the strict parameter. max ( iterable ,  ,  , key  None )  max ( iterable ,  ,  , default , key  None ) max ( arg1 , arg2 ,  ,  args , key  None ) Return the largest item in an iterable or the largest of two or more arguments. If one positional argument is provided, it should be an iterable . The largest item in the iterable is returned. If two or more positional arguments are provided, the largest of the positional arguments is returned. There are two optional keywordonly arguments. The key argument specifies a oneargument ordering function like that used for list.sort() . The default argument specifies an object to return if the provided iterable is empty. If the iterable is empty and default is not provided, a ValueError is raised. If multiple items are maximal, the function returns the first one encountered. This is consistent with other sortstability preserving tools such as sorted(iterable, keykeyfunc, reverseTrue)[0] and heapq.nlargest(1, iterable, keykeyfunc) . Changed in version 3.4: Added the default keywordonly parameter. Changed in version 3.8: The key can be None . class memoryview ( object ) Return a memory view object created from the given argument. See Memory Views for more information. min ( iterable ,  ,  , key  None )  min ( iterable ,  ,  , default , key  None ) min ( arg1 , arg2 ,  ,  args , key  None ) Return the smallest item in an iterable or the smallest of two or more arguments. If one positional argument is provided, it should be an iterable . The smallest item in the iterable is returned. If two or more positional arguments are provided, the smallest of the positional arguments is returned. There are two optional keywordonly arguments. The key argument specifies a oneargument ordering function like that used for list.sort() . The default argument specifies an object to return if the provided iterable is empty. If the iterable is empty and default is not provided, a ValueError is raised. If multiple items are minimal, the function returns the first one encountered. This is consistent with other sortstability preserving tools such as sorted(iterable, keykeyfunc)[0] and heapq.nsmallest(1, iterable, keykeyfunc) . Changed in version 3.4: Added the default keywordonly parameter. Changed in version 3.8: The key can be None . next ( iterator ,  )  next ( iterator , default ,  ) Retrieve the next item from the iterator by calling its next() method. If default is given, it is returned if the iterator is exhausted, otherwise StopIteration is raised. class object  This is the ultimate base class of all other classes. It has methods that are common to all instances of Python classes. When the constructor is called, it returns a new featureless object. The constructor does not accept any arguments. Note object instances do not have dict attributes, so you cant assign arbitrary attributes to an instance of object . oct ( integer ,  )  Convert an integer number to an octal string prefixed with 0o. The result is a valid Python expression. If integer is not a Python int object, it has to define an index() method that returns an integer. For example:  oct ( 8 ) 0o10  oct (  56 ) 0o70 If you want to convert an integer number to an octal string either with the prefix 0o or not, you can use either of the following ways.   o   10 ,  o   10 (0o12, 12)  format ( 10 , o ), format ( 10 , o ) (0o12, 12)  f  { 10 : o }  , f  { 10 : o }  (0o12, 12) See also format() for more information. open ( file , mode  r , buffering  1 , encoding  None , errors  None , newline  None , closefd  True , opener  None )  Open file and return a corresponding file object . If the file cannot be opened, an OSError is raised. See Reading and Writing Files for more examples of how to use this function. file is a pathlike object giving the pathname (absolute or relative to the current working directory) of the file to be opened or an integer file descriptor of the file to be wrapped. (If a file descriptor is given, it is closed when the returned IO object is closed unless closefd is set to False .) mode is an optional string that specifies the mode in which the file is opened. It defaults to r which means open for reading in text mode. Other common values are w for writing (truncating the file if it already exists), x for exclusive creation, and a for appending (which on some Unix systems, means that all writes append to the end of the file regardless of the current seek position). In text mode, if encoding is not specified the encoding used is platformdependent: locale.getencoding() is called to get the current locale encoding. (For reading and writing raw bytes use binary mode and leave encoding unspecified.) The available modes are: Character Meaning r open for reading (default) w open for writing, truncating the file first x open for exclusive creation, failing if the file already exists a open for writing, appending to the end of file if it exists b binary mode t text mode (default)  open for updating (reading and writing) The default mode is r (open for reading text, a synonym of rt ). Modes w and wb open and truncate the file. Modes r and rb open the file with no truncation. As mentioned in the Overview , Python distinguishes between binary and text IO. Files opened in binary mode (including b in the mode argument) return contents as bytes objects without any decoding. In text mode (the default, or when t is included in the mode argument), the contents of the file are returned as str , the bytes having been first decoded using a platformdependent encoding or using the specified encoding if given. Note Python doesnt depend on the underlying operating systems notion of text files; all the processing is done by Python itself, and is therefore platformindependent. buffering is an optional integer used to set the buffering policy. Pass 0 to switch buffering off (only allowed in binary mode), 1 to select line buffering (only usable when writing in text mode), and an integer  1 to indicate the size in bytes of a fixedsize chunk buffer. Note that specifying a buffer size this way applies for binary buffered IO, but TextIOWrapper (i.e., files opened with moder ) would have another buffering. To disable buffering in TextIOWrapper , consider using the writethrough flag for io.TextIOWrapper.reconfigure() . When no buffering argument is given, the default buffering policy works as follows: Binary files are buffered in fixedsize chunks; the size of the buffer is max(min(blocksize, 8 MiB), DEFAULTBUFFERSIZE) when the device block size is available. On most systems, the buffer will typically be 128 kilobytes long. Interactive text files (files for which isatty() returns True ) use line buffering. Other text files use the policy described above for binary files. encoding is the name of the encoding used to decode or encode the file. This should only be used in text mode. The default encoding is platform dependent (whatever locale.getencoding() returns), but any text encoding supported by Python can be used. See the codecs module for the list of supported encodings. errors is an optional string that specifies how encoding and decoding errors are to be handledthis cannot be used in binary mode. A variety of standard error handlers are available (listed under Error Handlers ), though any error handling name that has been registered with codecs.registererror() is also valid. The standard names include: strict to raise a ValueError exception if there is an encoding error. The default value of None has the same effect. ignore ignores errors. Note that ignoring encoding errors can lead to data loss. replace causes a replacement marker (such as ? ) to be inserted where there is malformed data. surrogateescape will represent any incorrect bytes as low surrogate code units ranging from UDC80 to UDCFF. These surrogate code units will then be turned back into the same bytes when the surrogateescape error handler is used when writing data. This is useful for processing files in an unknown encoding. xmlcharrefreplace is only supported when writing to a file. Characters not supported by the encoding are replaced with the appropriate XML character reference  nnn ; . backslashreplace replaces malformed data by Pythons backslashed escape sequences. namereplace (also only supported when writing) replaces unsupported characters with N{...} escape sequences. newline determines how to parse newline characters from the stream. It can be None ,  , n , r , and rn . It works as follows: When reading input from the stream, if newline is None , universal newlines mode is enabled. Lines in the input can end in n , r , or rn , and these are translated into n before being returned to the caller. If it is  , universal newlines mode is enabled, but line endings are returned to the caller untranslated. If it has any of the other legal values, input lines are only terminated by the given string, and the line ending is returned to the caller untranslated. When writing output to the stream, if newline is None , any n characters written are translated to the system default line separator, os.linesep . If newline is  or n , no translation takes place. If newline is any of the other legal values, any n characters written are translated to the given string. If closefd is False and a file descriptor rather than a filename was given, the underlying file descriptor will be kept open when the file is closed. If a filename is given closefd must be True (the default); otherwise, an error will be raised. A custom opener can be used by passing a callable as opener . The underlying file descriptor for the file object is then obtained by calling opener with ( file , flags ). opener must return an open file descriptor (passing os.open as opener results in functionality similar to passing None ). The newly created file is noninheritable . The following example uses the dirfd parameter of the os.open() function to open a file relative to a given directory:  import os  dirfd  os . open ( somedir , os . ORDONLY )  def opener ( path , flags ): ... return os . open ( path , flags , dirfd  dirfd ) ...  with open ( spamspam.txt , w , opener  opener ) as f : ... print ( This will be written to somedirspamspam.txt , file  f ) ...  os . close ( dirfd )  dont leak a file descriptor The type of file object returned by the open() function depends on the mode. When open() is used to open a file in a text mode ( w , r , wt , rt , etc.), it returns a subclass of io.TextIOBase (specifically io.TextIOWrapper ). When used to open a file in a binary mode with buffering, the returned class is a subclass of io.BufferedIOBase . The exact class varies: in read binary mode, it returns an io.BufferedReader ; in write binary and append binary modes, it returns an io.BufferedWriter , and in readwrite mode, it returns an io.BufferedRandom . When buffering is disabled, the raw stream, a subclass of io.RawIOBase , io.FileIO , is returned. See also the file handling modules, such as fileinput , io (where open() is declared), os , os.path , tempfile , and shutil . Raises an auditing event open with arguments path , mode , flags . The mode and flags arguments may have been modified or inferred from the original call. Changed in version 3.3: The opener parameter was added. The x mode was added. IOError used to be raised, it is now an alias of OSError . FileExistsError is now raised if the file opened in exclusive creation mode ( x ) already exists. Changed in version 3.4: The file is now noninheritable. Changed in version 3.5: If the system call is interrupted and the signal handler does not raise an exception, the function now retries the system call instead of raising an InterruptedError exception (see PEP 475 for the rationale). The namereplace error handler was added. Changed in version 3.6: Support added to accept objects implementing os.PathLike . On Windows, opening a console buffer may return a subclass of io.RawIOBase other than io.FileIO . Changed in version 3.11: The U mode has been removed. ord ( character ,  )  Return the ordinal value of a character. If the argument is a onecharacter string, return the Unicode code point of that character. For example, ord(a) returns the integer 97 and ord() (Euro sign) returns 8364 . This is the inverse of chr() . If the argument is a bytes or bytearray object of length 1, return its single byte value. For example, ord(ba) returns the integer 97 . pow ( base , exp , mod  None )  Return base to the power exp ; if mod is present, return base to the power exp , modulo mod (computed more efficiently than pow(base, exp)  mod ). The twoargument form pow(base, exp) is equivalent to using the power operator: baseexp . When arguments are builtin numeric types with mixed operand types, the coercion rules for binary arithmetic operators apply. For int operands, the result has the same type as the operands (after coercion) unless the second argument is negative; in that case, all arguments are converted to float and a float result is delivered. For example, pow(10, 2) returns 100 , but pow(10, 2) returns 0.01 . For a negative base of type int or float and a nonintegral exponent, a complex result is delivered. For example, pow(9, 0.5) returns a value close to 3j . Whereas, for a negative base of type int or float with an integral exponent, a float result is delivered. For example, pow(9, 2.0) returns 81.0 . For int operands base and exp , if mod is present, mod must also be of integer type and mod must be nonzero. If mod is present and exp is negative, base must be relatively prime to mod . In that case, pow(invbase, exp, mod) is returned, where invbase is an inverse to base modulo mod . Heres an example of computing an inverse for 38 modulo 97 :  pow ( 38 ,  1 , mod  97 ) 23  23  38  97  1 True Changed in version 3.8: For int operands, the threeargument form of pow now allows the second argument to be negative, permitting computation of modular inverses. Changed in version 3.8: Allow keyword arguments. Formerly, only positional arguments were supported. print (  objects , sep    , end  n , file  None , flush  False )  Print objects to the text stream file , separated by sep and followed by end . sep , end , file , and flush , if present, must be given as keyword arguments. All nonkeyword arguments are converted to strings like str() does and written to the stream, separated by sep and followed by end . Both sep and end must be strings; they can also be None , which means to use the default values. If no objects are given, print() will just write end . The file argument must be an object with a write(string) method; if it is not present or None , sys.stdout will be used. Since printed arguments are converted to text strings, print() cannot be used with binary mode file objects. For these, use file.write(...) instead. Output buffering is usually determined by file . However, if flush is true, the stream is forcibly flushed. Changed in version 3.3: Added the flush keyword argument. class property ( fget  None , fset  None , fdel  None , doc  None )  Return a property attribute. fget is a function for getting an attribute value. fset is a function for setting an attribute value. fdel is a function for deleting an attribute value. And doc creates a docstring for the attribute. A typical use is to define a managed attribute x : class C : def init ( self ): self . x  None def getx ( self ): return self . x def setx ( self , value ): self . x  value def delx ( self ): del self . x x  property ( getx , setx , delx , Im the x property. ) If c is an instance of C , c.x will invoke the getter, c.x  value will invoke the setter, and del c.x the deleter. If given, doc will be the docstring of the property attribute. Otherwise, the property will copy fget s docstring (if it exists). This makes it possible to create readonly properties easily using property() as a decorator : class Parrot : def init ( self ): self . voltage  100000 property def voltage ( self ): Get the current voltage. return self . voltage The property decorator turns the voltage() method into a getter for a readonly attribute with the same name, and it sets the docstring for voltage to Get the current voltage.  getter   setter   deleter  A property object has getter , setter , and deleter methods usable as decorators that create a copy of the property with the corresponding accessor function set to the decorated function. This is best explained with an example: class C : def init ( self ): self . x  None property def x ( self ): Im the x property. return self . x x . setter def x ( self , value ): self . x  value x . deleter def x ( self ): del self . x This code is exactly equivalent to the first example. Be sure to give the additional functions the same name as the original property ( x in this case.) The returned property object also has the attributes fget , fset , and fdel corresponding to the constructor arguments. Changed in version 3.5: The docstrings of property objects are now writeable. name  Attribute holding the name of the property. The name of the property can be changed at runtime. Added in version 3.13. class range ( stop ,  ) class range ( start , stop , step  1 ,  ) Rather than being a function, range is actually an immutable sequence type, as documented in Ranges and Sequence Types  list, tuple, range . repr ( object ,  )  Return a string containing a printable representation of an object. For many types, this function makes an attempt to return a string that would yield an object with the same value when passed to eval() ; otherwise, the representation is a string enclosed in angle brackets that contains the name of the type of the object together with additional information often including the name and address of the object. A class can control what this function returns for its instances by defining a repr() method. If sys.displayhook() is not accessible, this function will raise RuntimeError . This class has a custom representation that can be evaluated: class Person : def init ( self , name , age ): self . name  name self . age  age def repr ( self ): return f Person( { self . name } , { self . age } ) reversed ( object ,  )  Return a reverse iterator . The argument must be an object which has a reversed() method or supports the sequence protocol (the len() method and the getitem() method with integer arguments starting at 0 ). round ( number , ndigits  None )  Return number rounded to ndigits precision after the decimal point. If ndigits is omitted or is None , it returns the nearest integer to its input. For the builtin types supporting round() , values are rounded to the closest multiple of 10 to the power minus ndigits ; if two multiples are equally close, rounding is done toward the even choice (so, for example, both round(0.5) and round(0.5) are 0 , and round(1.5) is 2 ). Any integer value is valid for ndigits (positive, zero, or negative). The return value is an integer if ndigits is omitted or None . Otherwise, the return value has the same type as number . For a general Python object number , round delegates to number.round . Note The behavior of round() for floats can be surprising: for example, round(2.675, 2) gives 2.67 instead of the expected 2.68 . This is not a bug: its a result of the fact that most decimal fractions cant be represented exactly as a float. See FloatingPoint Arithmetic: Issues and Limitations for more information. class set ( iterable  () ,  ) Return a new set object, optionally with elements taken from iterable . set is a builtin class. See set and Set Types  set, frozenset for documentation about this class. For other containers see the builtin frozenset , list , tuple , and dict classes, as well as the collections module. setattr ( object , name , value ,  )  This is the counterpart of getattr() . The arguments are an object, a string, and an arbitrary value. The string may name an existing attribute or a new attribute. The function assigns the value to the attribute, provided the object allows it. For example, setattr(x, foobar, 123) is equivalent to x.foobar  123 . name need not be a Python identifier as defined in Names (identifiers and keywords) unless the object chooses to enforce that, for example in a custom getattribute() or via slots . An attribute whose name is not an identifier will not be accessible using the dot notation, but is accessible through getattr() etc.. Note Since private name mangling happens at compilation time, one must manually mangle a private attributes (attributes with two leading underscores) name in order to set it with setattr() . class slice ( stop ,  )  class slice ( start , stop , step  None ,  ) Return a slice object representing the set of indices specified by range(start, stop, step) . The start and step arguments default to None . Slice objects are also generated when slicing syntax is used. For example: a[start:stop:step] or a[start:stop, i] . See itertools.islice() for an alternate version that returns an iterator . start  stop  step  These readonly attributes are set to the argument values (or their default). They have no other explicit functionality; however, they are used by NumPy and other thirdparty packages. Changed in version 3.12: Slice objects are now hashable (provided start , stop , and step are hashable). sorted ( iterable ,  ,  , key  None , reverse  False )  Return a new sorted list from the items in iterable . Has two optional arguments which must be specified as keyword arguments. key specifies a function of one argument that is used to extract a comparison key from each element in iterable (for example, keystr.lower ). The default value is None (compare the elements directly). reverse is a boolean value. If set to True , then the list elements are sorted as if each comparison were reversed. Use functools.cmptokey() to convert an oldstyle cmp function to a key function. The builtin sorted() function is guaranteed to be stable. A sort is stable if it guarantees not to change the relative order of elements that compare equal  this is helpful for sorting in multiple passes (for example, sort by department, then by salary grade). The sort algorithm uses only B  C  A  object and the value of type is B , then super() searches C  A  object . The mro attribute of the class corresponding to objectortype lists the method resolution search order used by both getattr() and super() . The attribute is dynamic and can change whenever the inheritance hierarchy is updated. If the second argument is omitted, the super object returned is unbound. If the second argument is an object, isinstance(obj, type) must be true. If the second argument is a type, issubclass(type2, type) must be true (this is useful for classmethods). When called directly within an ordinary method of a class, both arguments may be omitted (zeroargument super() ). In this case, type will be the enclosing class, and obj will be the first argument of the immediately enclosing function (typically self ). (This means that zeroargument super() will not work as expected within nested functions, including generator expressions, which implicitly create nested functions.) There are two typical use cases for super . In a class hierarchy with single inheritance, super can be used to refer to parent classes without naming them explicitly, thus making the code more maintainable. This use closely parallels the use of super in other programming languages. The second use case is to support cooperative multiple inheritance in a dynamic execution environment. This use case is unique to Python and is not found in statically compiled languages or languages that only support single inheritance. This makes it possible to implement diamond diagrams where multiple base classes implement the same method. Good design dictates that such implementations have the same calling signature in every case (because the order of calls is determined at runtime, because that order adapts to changes in the class hierarchy, and because that order can include sibling classes that are unknown prior to runtime). For both use cases, a typical superclass call looks like this: class C ( B ): def method ( self , arg ): super () . method ( arg )  This does the same thing as:  super(C, self).method(arg) In addition to method lookups, super() also works for attribute lookups. One possible use case for this is calling descriptors in a parent or sibling class. Note that super() is implemented as part of the binding process for explicit dotted attribute lookups such as super().getitem(name) . It does so by implementing its own getattribute() method for searching classes in a predictable order that supports cooperative multiple inheritance. Accordingly, super() is undefined for implicit lookups using statements or operators such as super()[name] . Also note that, aside from the zero argument form, super() is not limited to use inside methods. The two argument form specifies the arguments exactly and makes the appropriate references. The zero argument form only works inside a class definition, as the compiler fills in the necessary details to correctly retrieve the class being defined, as well as accessing the current instance for ordinary methods. For practical suggestions on how to design cooperative classes using super() , see guide to using super() . Changed in version 3.14: super objects are now pickleable and copyable . class tuple ( iterable  () ,  ) Rather than being a function, tuple is actually an immutable sequence type, as documented in Tuples and Sequence Types  list, tuple, range . class type ( object ,  )  class type ( name , bases , dict ,  ,  kwargs ) With one argument, return the type of an object . The return value is a type object and generally the same object as returned by object.class . The isinstance() builtin function is recommended for testing the type of an object, because it takes subclasses into account. With three arguments, return a new type object. This is essentially a dynamic form of the class statement. The name string is the class name and becomes the name attribute. The bases tuple contains the base classes and becomes the bases attribute; if empty, object , the ultimate base of all classes, is added. The dict dictionary contains attribute and method definitions for the class body; it may be copied or wrapped before becoming the dict attribute. The following two statements create identical type objects:  class X : ... a  1 ...  X  type ( X , (), dict ( a  1 )) See also: Documentation on attributes and methods on classes . Type Objects Keyword arguments provided to the three argument form are passed to the appropriate metaclass machinery (usually initsubclass() ) in the same way that keywords in a class definition (besides metaclass ) would. See also Customizing class creation . Changed in version 3.6: Subclasses of type which dont override type.new may no longer use the oneargument form to get the type of an object. vars ( )  vars ( object ,  ) Return the dict attribute for a module, class, instance, or any other object with a dict attribute. Objects such as modules and instances have an updateable dict attribute; however, other objects may have write restrictions on their dict attributes (for example, classes use a types.MappingProxyType to prevent direct dictionary updates). Without an argument, vars() acts like locals() . A TypeError exception is raised if an object is specified but it doesnt have a dict attribute (for example, if its class defines the slots attribute). Changed in version 3.13: The result of calling this function without an argument has been updated as described for the locals() builtin. zip (  iterables , strict  False )  Iterate over several iterables in parallel, producing tuples with an item from each one. Example:  for item in zip ([ 1 , 2 , 3 ], [ sugar , spice , everything nice ]): ... print ( item ) ... (1, sugar) (2, spice) (3, everything nice) More formally: zip() returns an iterator of tuples, where the i th tuple contains the i th element from each of the argument iterables. Another way to think of zip() is that it turns rows into columns, and columns into rows. This is similar to transposing a matrix . zip() is lazy: The elements wont be processed until the iterable is iterated on, e.g. by a for loop or by wrapping in a list . One thing to consider is that the iterables passed to zip() could have different lengths; sometimes by design, and sometimes because of a bug in the code that prepared these iterables. Python offers three different approaches to dealing with this issue: By default, zip() stops when the shortest iterable is exhausted. It will ignore the remaining items in the longer iterables, cutting off the result to the length of the shortest iterable:  list ( zip ( range ( 3 ), [ fee , fi , fo , fum ])) [(0, fee), (1, fi), (2, fo)] zip() is often used in cases where the iterables are assumed to be of equal length. In such cases, its recommended to use the strictTrue option. Its output is the same as regular zip() :  list ( zip (( a , b , c ), ( 1 , 2 , 3 ), strict  True )) [(a, 1), (b, 2), (c, 3)] Unlike the default behavior, it raises a ValueError if one iterable is exhausted before the others:  for item in zip ( range ( 3 ), [ fee , fi , fo , fum ], strict  True ): ... print ( item ) ... (0, fee) (1, fi) (2, fo) Traceback (most recent call last): ... ValueError : zip() argument 2 is longer than argument 1 Without the strictTrue argument, any bug that results in iterables of different lengths will be silenced, possibly manifesting as a hardtofind bug in another part of the program. Shorter iterables can be padded with a constant value to make all the iterables have the same length. This is done by itertools.ziplongest() . Edge cases: With a single iterable argument, zip() returns an iterator of 1tuples. With no arguments, it returns an empty iterator. Tips and tricks: The lefttoright evaluation order of the iterables is guaranteed. This makes possible an idiom for clustering a data series into nlength groups using zip([iter(s)]n, strictTrue) . This repeats the same iterator n times so that each output tuple has the result of n calls to the iterator. This has the effect of dividing the input into nlength chunks. zip() in conjunction with the  operator can be used to unzip a list:  x  [ 1 , 2 , 3 ]  y  [ 4 , 5 , 6 ]  list ( zip ( x , y )) [(1, 4), (2, 5), (3, 6)]  x2 , y2  zip (  zip ( x , y ))  x  list ( x2 ) and y  list ( y2 ) True Changed in version 3.10: Added the strict argument. import ( name , globals  None , locals  None , fromlist  () , level  0 )  Note This is an advanced function that is not needed in everyday Python programming, unlike importlib.importmodule() . This function is invoked by the import statement. It can be replaced (by importing the builtins module and assigning to builtins.import ) in order to change semantics of the import statement, but doing so is strongly discouraged as it is usually simpler to use import hooks (see PEP 302 ) to attain the same goals and does not cause issues with code which assumes the default import implementation is in use. Direct use of import() is also discouraged in favor of importlib.importmodule() . The function imports the module name , potentially using the given globals and locals to determine how to interpret the name in a package context. The fromlist gives the names of objects or submodules that should be imported from the module given by name . The standard implementation does not use its locals argument at all and uses its globals only to determine the package context of the import statement. level specifies whether to use absolute or relative imports. 0 (the default) means only perform absolute imports. Positive values for level indicate the number of parent directories to search relative to the directory of the module calling import() (see PEP 328 for the details). When the name variable is of the form package.module , normally, the toplevel package (the name up till the first dot) is returned, not the module named by name . However, when a nonempty fromlist argument is given, the module named by name is returned. For example, the statement import spam results in bytecode resembling the following code: spam  import ( spam , globals (), locals (), [], 0 ) The statement import spam.ham results in this call: spam  import ( spam.ham , globals (), locals (), [], 0 ) Note how import() returns the toplevel module here because this is the object that is bound to a name by the import statement. On the other hand, the statement from spam.ham import eggs, sausage as saus results in temp  import ( spam.ham , globals (), locals (), [ eggs , sausage ], 0 ) eggs  temp . eggs saus  temp . sausage Here, the spam.ham module is returned from import() . From this object, the names to import are retrieved and assigned to their respective names. If you simply want to import a module (potentially within a package) by name, use importlib.importmodule() . Changed in version 3.3: Negative values for level are no longer supported (which also changes the default value to 0). Changed in version 3.9: When the command line options E or I are being used, the environment variable PYTHONCASEOK is now ignored. Footnotes Previous topic Introduction Next topic Builtin Constants This page Report a bug Improve this page Show source  Navigation index modules  next  previous  Python  3.14.3 Documentation  The Python Standard Library  Builtin Functions  Theme Auto Light Dark   Copyright 2001 Python Software Foundation. This page is licensed under the Python Software Foundation License Version 2. Examples, recipes, and other code in the documentation are additionally licensed under the Zero Clause BSD License. See History and License for more information. The Python Software Foundation is a nonprofit corporation. Please donate. Last updated on Mar 13, 2026 (18:12 UTC). Found a bug ? Created using Sphinx 8.2.3.